[SNC-370] added first draft of policies and parameterization section (#8227)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/config-policy-management-overview.adoc

}
----

[#policies-and-parameterization]
== Config policies with parameterization and reusable config

> CAUTION: **Using server?** The ability to write policies that inspect compiles config (`input._compiled_`) discussed in this section is currently unsupported on CircleCI server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAUTION: **Using server?** The ability to write policies that inspect compiled config (`input._compiled_`) discussed in this section is currently unsupported on CircleCI server
```

jobs:
  test:
    executor: lg-executor
----

In the above example, the policy is bypassed and will **not trigger**. The policy inspects `jobs` and does not find a `resource_class == "large"`.

This is problematic because once the configuration is compiled, the job `test` will have a `resource_class == "large"`.

Another way this policy could be unintentionally bypassed is by using parameters. Consider the following configuration, which uses a parameter to set the resource class for an executor:

**Configuration using a parameter**
[source,yaml]
----
version: 2.1

jobs:
  test:
    parameters:
      size:
        type: string
    resource_class: << parameters.size >> # parameterized definition of resource_class

workflows:
  main:
    jobs:
      - test: # invokation of parameterized job "test" with a size equal to "large".
          size: large
----

The same situation applies as for the first configuration presented above. The policy inspects the jobs and does not find a `resource_class == "large"`, but instead finds `<< parameters.size >>`, which is acceptable for the policy.

However, once the config is compiled, the job test will have a `resource_class == "large"`.

> To resolve both of these issues, it is important to acknowledge that we want to apply the policy to all jobs, which is a configuration `version: 2.0` construct, and write the policy to target the compiled version accordingly, as follows:

Reviewer 2: Non-blocking for this PR, just something to consider: I think it might be helpful if we included some context about what config `version: 2.0` means, and maybe also what we mean when we say "construct". Not sure that we have any existing page or section somewhere that does this. Could it also possibly be good to have this sort of info in a snippet?

Reviewer 3: Yes excellent suggestion. I will make a ticket for this ❤️

* **Banlists**: Assert that the input must not match a particular value nor be within a set of prohibited values

When working with configuration `version 2.1` constructs and parameterization, it is crucial to understand how these two rule types interact with your policies.

* **Banlist** rules are susceptible to being bypassed using parameterization and reusable constructs. This is because the literal parameter value is unlikely to match the banned value, and during config compilation, the values intended to be banned can be reintroduced. All parameterization examples provided above fall into this category. To address this, you can either utilize `input._compiled_` or detect parameterization and handle it appropriately.

* **Allowlist** rules are incompatible with parameterization. They reject configurations that could otherwise be considered valid but do not cause invalid configurations to pass.

Consider an example to illustrate this:

NOTE: This example is artificial and for illustration purposes only. The appropriate policy for enforcing job resource classes should target the compiled input (`input._compiled_`). This ensures proper validation against the resolved values.

> **Policy using an allow list to restrict resource classes**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Policy using an allowlist to restrict resource classes**
```
